the cuttlefish has taken camouflage to
the next level they can change their
color shape and texture to blend in with
the background it's hard to believe
looking at these pictures
but all these cuttlefish are exactly the
same species they're simply changing
their appearance depending on what's
around them
it's called adaptive camouflage and it's
perfect for hiding from both predators
and prey
but can the cuttlefish adapt to anything
really
you must applaud the cuttlefish for its
amazing ability to blend into its
surroundings but how clever is that
really I mean vanishing amongst things
that are around it all the time it's one
thing for a cuttlefish to camouflage
itself against seaweed sand pebbles and
stuff like that but how would they fare
camouflaging themselves against
something a bit more complicated
something a bit like this yeah I know
it's hardly Grand Designs but I've gone
for this rather new radec or for good
reason I want to see how the cuttlefish
tackles something a bit more challenging
so I chosen stripes chess board and some
old-style
Chin's okay time to see how they cope
let's get our cuttlefish settled in and
dim down the lights
he's having a look at it
Andy's gone straight for the big one the
checkerboard floor
and amazingly I think he's having a
crack at it
there's definitely the beginnings of a
checkerboard there he's not quite lined
up right but you know still impressive
right one next
zebra-skin rug now is improvising let's
get him back to the task in hand
now that's more like it
he's blending into the chaise longue a
treat
the note is one thing he's not
camouflaged with what he can see in
front of him he's camouflaged with
what's underneath him
you